Now the next thing that we should also known back if there are sequence of function calls.
Then how are the memories.
I look at it it's like stack files on a piece of cord a small sample code that I I'll show you how the
memories look at it inside the stack for the sequence of function calls.
Here I have a sample piece of cord.
There's a main function main function is having two variables and then discarding function fun one and
fun one is having your local variable X then it is calling function 2 and passing parameter X this function
to a stinking parameter as I then also it's having your own variable a following function calls are
made then how the memories allocated for all these functions.
Let us look at it.
First of all we really want to run this program.
The machine code of this program will be copied in code section so I will label it like this function.
Who does the machine call the function to.
And assume that this is for function 1 and then this is the main function.
This is a machine code for this entire program.
Now let us start executing when the program starts executing and will start from the main function.
The moment it enters inside main function it requires variable so the memory for a and b will be allocated
inside this area.
This section and that is a and b.
So making another single block.
These are the two variables.
Now next main function call is a function fund one.
Now the control goes to functions 1 1 the woman control goes here.
Inside this the first thing is variable is the cloud variable declarations is there.
So the variable is created inside the stack.
So this function fund one that is x.
So this piece of memory belongs to main function.
And I believe that this belongs to functions on one right now which function is executing.
Currently function fun one is executing because we have go from here.
So this is topmost Activision record belongs to which function currently executing function.
That is fun long though someone will call the fun too.
So again the control goes through function to then that is having two variables one is its bottom and
the other one is its local variable.
So members are looking out for those variables ie.
And E and this is for function do not presently function 2 is running and the topmost activation record
inside this area is fun too.
So currently exhibiting function with access the topmost activation record.
Now one thing you can observe that we started from me and function.
It has not yet finished but it has called function 1.
So main function activation that code is as it is inside this track.
Then activation record for fund 1 is created its memory forward fund one is allocated then it is still
running but it has got the fund do so the activation of the code for fund dos created an activation
that got a fund one is still there in the memory.
Now let us continue on what execution fund though is the current executive function double the function
to has a finished Terminator then.
Then it all goes back to function 1 it will come back after this point it will come back to function
one inside this function one that is after this line it will come to this length.
So there is there is a statement here so it will come to this statement what happens for the activation
record of that function to this will be deleted.
Then this after this function one has finished executing this a statement.
It will come back to the main function after this second function.
Well let us say there is some statement it will come to that statement.
And one of the functions on one ends its activation that code is also removed from the main memory that
is from the strike.
Their main function also ends.
So it's Activision that code is also deleted from memory.
So now you can see that how the activation of the code for sequence of function calls for a key attack
first main function then above that function 1 above that function to arrive no function.
Who is running these are already dead in the memory function two ends.
It will delete and come back here many events delete and come back here but events are delayed and the
program ends.
So the activation of the Guard are created like this and then deleted like this.
So this mechanism is stuck right top and top and top then delete delete delete.
So this mechanism is.
So that's why this section of memory behaves like a stock during the function call.
So that's why it is named as stack.
So that's all there's all the main memories use of stock memory is used for function calls.
Not one important thing to observe how much memory is required by a function.
Depends on the number of variables and their sizes.
And this is a decided by compiler only.
So this memory is automatically created on automatically destroyed the programmer doesn't have to do
anything for its allocation and destruction just forgot one has to declare the variable.
So the conclusion is what are the variables you declared in the program or whatever the bottom does
you are functions are taking for all of them memories.
I look at it and said the stack on it is automatically created and automatically destroyed when the
function ends.
Next we'll talk about keep and see how memories are dynamically I look at it from now.
Let us learn how heap memories utilized by our program.
So I have taken up Main function this I mean functions I'm sharing the code here and this memory already
we have seen.
Now we have to see heap.
First let us understand the com heap heap means what just piling up.
If the pings are kept the one eyeball on other or just randomly views the golem heap so heap is used
in two cases one if the things are properly ordered denies like a tugboat electing then on some would
say he and if it is not the and also it's looking like a cover then also we look because it does heap.
So the important point is he award or Tom he can be used for all of the nice thing as well as on the
part of the nice team.
So here he is the dome used for an organized memory.
It's not organized stock memories organize right.
We already saw how the activation that guards are created and delivered.
But that is not organize.
This is the first point and the second point I will keep is that heat memory should be treated like
a resource resource.
So it tells you something about the resource in applications she supplies.
Brenda is a resource for your program.
If your program want to use a printer then it can request for a printer.
Use the printer once it has finished using it it should release the printer so that the other applications
can use it simply hate.
Memory should be used like a resource when required.
You take the memory when you don't require you release the memory.
This is a practice that you must do while dealing with heat memory.
So I believe two points.
What is hip.
Second thing it should be treated as a resource.
The third important point program can order directly access hate memory.
It can directly access anything inside.
Section and inside stock but it will not access heat memory.
That is like a policy of a program but it will not access happen.
It can if it want but it will not access memory.
So programs cannot access heap memory directly.
Then how do they access memory using boink.
So let me show you how we can get some memory inside the heap with the help of a pointer.
Let us check it first of all for picking some memory.
I have to take a blind guy.
The first question how many bytes or undertakes in my discussion for making it simple.
I say that point it takes two bytes.
Actually the amount of memory taken by pointer depends on size offering digital usually if any good
is true by its point as to where it's 10 digit is for wait so point of thought.
So let us assume that it is sticking to bites.
So let us just assume that one is taking two bites so this may store whites not next point.
Vendor memory for the point it will be a look see just knowing in the static memory allocation I told
you that what all the variables are declared in your functions.
David I'll go buy a memory inside the stock in that Activision that.
So yes for this point up memory as I look at it here.
So this is a pointer so Dexter White's circle bytes of memory and this is activation that chord for
me in function.
Now I want to look at memory and heap so how much memory I want to allocate.
I want to create an array of integer of size 5 so this new statement will allocate memory in he of size
of 5.
So any of size 5 and this point there will point on this one.
Suppose the address of dislocation the beginning of this is 500 so 500 is stored here.
This is the method of allocating memory and heap so very What do you see new Newmans memories of the
predicted heap symbol of variable declaration.
Memory memories a look at it in such attack in C++ it is new.
But if I write something in C language then I have to use my log function or MLR log function on a 1
5 integer so 5 integer as you mean to get X to bite.
So this is true and I have to typecast.
It does indeed your type.
So this happens in C++ and this happens in C language so it does look good for C++ does the good for
C language most of the time I would be using this one right.
This is like Lindy so I wouldn't be in this one.
So that's all nil as use for ever getting memory in the heap not programming cannot validly access that
it has to access pointer why don't want give the address of that memory then the program can't reach
that location and access these integers not one thing I told you that heap memory should be treated
like a source after some time in your program if you don't need that already and you want to make B
as no means you don't want disappoint people point it you don't need that memory anymore and you don't
want to point at the point data so you can make the point another so nothing will be pointing onto this
one then I want to work back to memory is it lost.
Is it gone.
No.
I give a long video look at it so it's a good practice that when you don't need the memory you should
D a look at it as you have requested for that location same way you should request D location of the
memory so C delete b you must see delete as it is not a so you have to say this one so when you say
B this memory will be deleted and then you can make the point right.
No so this will become zero this is not pointing on this location so that's all heat memory should be
explicitly requested an explicitly released or disposed otherwise if you are not releasing it then the
memory will be still belonging to your program and that memory cannot be used again so it causes loss
of memory and the loss of memory is called as memory leak and if you continue to see anything in the
program for many times then at one stage the heat memory may be full there is no free space in heat
memory.
So whenever you look at the memory heap memory and if you both needed a release the memory.
So let us conclude we have seen static memory allocation that was done inside the stack for all the
variables then we have seen heat memory allocation it is done with the help of pointers and was not
in use it must be released.
So finally we conclude here.
We have seen how the static memory location is done from the stack and how dynamic memory irrigation
is done from the heap.
So this is the difference between stock and heap.
So then in next video I'll give you introduction comedian start structures.